New Openclaw robot is insane. Okay, so a
robot just learned how to remember
everything it sees. Like everything
where you put your keys, who walked in
the room, what time it happened, and the
whole internet is losing it right now.
This is brand new. This is huge. And I'm
going to break it all down so simple a
kid could get it. Let's go. So, this
clip started going around online. A
robot is walking through a room. It's
got cameras. It's got laser sensors.
Normal stuff, right? Robots do that all
the time. But here's where it gets
crazy. The system running behind this
robot is called Open Claw. And instead
of just looking at stuff and dodging
furniture like every other robot, this
thing starts building a memory, a real
memory of the whole room, every object,
every person, every single moment. It
connects space and time and objects all
together. So the robot is not just
walking through a room anymore. It is
remembering the room, like actually
remembering it. And that right there is
why engineers are freaking out. Now, let
me explain why this is such a big deal.
Think about how normal robots work. They
look at what's in front of them, they
react, they move, and then they kind of
forget. Like a goldfish with wheels, the
moment is gone. But this new open claw
system is different. It keeps a record
of everything. So, if someone walks into
a room at 7:00 p.m. on a Tuesday, the
robot knows. Not because it's watching a
video back like a security camera, but
because it built a structured memory of
that event. It knows the person. It
knows the place. It knows the time. and
it can pull that up later when you ask.
Now, here's where it gets even wilder.
You can actually talk to this robot
about what it remembers. You could ask
it, "Where did I leave my keys?" and it
searches through its memory and tells
you. You could ask it who came into the
house last night. It knows. You could
ask it which room does my family spend
the most time in. It figures that out,
too. This is not science fiction. This
is happening right now. And it's all
open source, meaning anyone can use it.
Hey, if we haven't met already, I'm the
digital avatar of Julian Goldie, CEO of
Goldie Agency. Whilst he's helping
clients get more leads and customers,
I'm here to help you get the latest AI
updates. Julian Goldie reads every
comment, so make sure you drop one
below. Okay, so let me tell you how this
memory thing actually works because it's
genius. The Open Claw team uses
something called voxilization. Big word,
but super simple idea. Imagine you take
a room and you chop it up into tiny
little cubes, like three-dimensional
pixels. Each little cube is called a
voxil. And each voxil holds information.
what's in that spot, what it looks like,
what it means. So over time, the robot
builds this layered map of the whole
space, rooms, objects, surfaces,
positions, timestamps, all of it stacked
together like building blocks. And that
becomes the robot's memory of the world.
Now, think about what that means. The
robot is not just seeing the world. It
is understanding the world. It knows
what things are. It knows where things
are. And it knows when things happened.
That is a massive leap from anything
we've seen before in robotics. And
people online are calling it a
milestone. Some people are joking that
someone just opens sourced Skynet on
GitHub. Obviously, that's a joke. But
the point is, this feels like a turning
point. Now, here's the thing that makes
Open Claw even more interesting. It
doesn't just work with one type of
robot. It works with almost anything.
Humanoid robots, four-legged robots,
drones, even a smartphone with the right
sensors could plug into this system. It
doesn't care what hardware you use. You
just connect the sensors and run the
software. That flexibility is a gamecher
because it means this technology can
spread fast, really fast. Now, if you're
watching this and thinking, "Okay, this
is cool, but how does this help me in my
business or my life? Let me connect the
dots. AI is moving so fast right now.
Agents are running real tasks. Systems
are handling work that used to take
people hours. And if you're not keeping
up, you're falling behind. That's
exactly why I built the AI Profit
Boardroom. is the best place to scale
your business, get more customers, and
save hundreds of hours with AI
automation. If you want to learn how to
use AI tools like OpenClaw and other
cutting edge systems to actually grow
your business, the link is in the
description, go check it out. All right,
back to the robots.
So, one thing people were worried about
is speed. Like, okay, cool. The robot
can remember stuff, but is it slow? Fair
question. And the developers had a
really smart answer. They split the
system into two layers. The bottom layer
handles movement, motors, joints,
walking. That stuff runs fast, no delay.
The top layer is the brain. That's where
open claw sits. It watches the
environment. It manages the memory. It
decides what to do next, but it doesn't
slow down the movement. So, the robot
moves quick and thinks deep at the same
time. That's a really elegant design.
Now, some engineers pushed back and
said, "Why are you using large language
models for robots? Wouldn't specialized
models be better? And the developers had
a solid response. They said, "Look,
running a language model on hardware is
actually pretty easy now." The hard part
is keeping track of physical context
over time and space. That's the real
challenge. And that's exactly what
OpenClaw solves. It gives AI systems a
way to remember and organize what's
happening in the real world. And that's
way harder than just running a model.
Now, let me tell you about some of the
real experiments people have done with
this. One team hooked up OpenClaw to a
humanoid robot called the Unitary G1.
And instead of writing complicated code
to control it, they just sent it text
messages. Like literally through a
messaging app, they typed move forward 1
m. The robot moved forward 1 meter. They
typed turn left 45°. It turned and the
robot could even send camera snapshots
back through the app. So you could see
what the robot sees from your phone.
That is wild. Another team connected
Open Claw to a 3D printed robotic hand.
Using just a basic camera for visual
feedback, the AI learned to make
gestures on its own. It made a fist. It
made a peace sign. And it was narrating
what it was doing through text messages
the whole time. Think about that for a
second. An AI controlling a robot handle
learning gestures by itself and telling
you about it through your phone. And it
goes even further. Developers connected
it to a robotic arm. And instead of
writing complex code to move the arm,
they just described what they wanted in
plain English. The system wrote the code
automatically and sent it to the arm.
That is the future of robotics right
there. You don't need to be an engineer.
You just need to be able to type a
sentence. Now, here's something that
really blew my mind. They're also
working on giving robots digital
identities. So, a robot could have its
own identity on a network. It could
operate as its own independent thing.
Researchers are calling this the machine
economy where robots and AI agents
coordinate and work together on their
own. That sounds like something out of a
movie, but it's being built right now in
the open for anyone to use. But let's
keep it real for a second. The real
world is messy. Sensors conflict with
each other. Lighting changes. Objects
move around. Data gets noisy. Hardware
breaks. All of that makes real world
robotics way harder than anything in a
simulation. So, while this is incredible
progress, we're still in the early days.
There's a lot of work left to do. But
the foundation is being laid right now,
and it's being laid in the open for
everyone. [snorts] The bigger picture
here is this. We're watching the moment
where AI stops just talking and starts
doing. Open claw is literally giving AI
systems hands the ability to touch the
real world to move through it to
remember it and to act on what it knows.
That is a fundamental shift. And it's
happening faster than anyone expected.
Now look, if you want to stay ahead of
all of this, if you want to actually use
AI to grow your business and not just
watch videos about it, the AI profit
boardroom is where you need to be. is
the best place to learn how to use
cutting edge AI tools like OpenClaw to
automate your workflows, get more
customers, and scale faster than you
ever thought possible. The link is in
the description. Go join now. And if you
want the full process, the SOPs and over
100 AI use cases like this one. Join the
AI success lab. Links in the comments
and description. You'll get all the
video notes from there, plus access to
our community of 38,000 members who are
crushing it with AI. I'll see you in
there.